README.md, before:

# Orbit - A MetaWeblog API Server for Hugo

Orbit is a MetaWeblog API server for blogs powered by
[Hugo](https://gohugo.io). It was written so that I could write and publish to
my [blog](https://elliotekj.com) from
[MarsEdit](https://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/). It supports draft posts (not
a MetaWeblog standard) and MarsEdit's drag & drop image insertion. It also has
built-in token verification so you can safely expose it on your server.

**Jump to:** [Basic Usage](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#basic-usage) | [Post Types](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#post-types) | [Update Command](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#update-command) | [Authentication](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#authentication) | [Draft Posts](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#draft-posts)| [All Options](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#all-options)

## Basic Usage

1. [Download Orbit](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/archive/master.zip)

2. `cd` into the folder and run:

```
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH
```

3. Configure MarsEdit:

![MarsEdit configuration](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/blob/master/.README/marsedit.png)


## Post Types

If your blog, like mine, has multiple post types (e.g. link posts, regular
posts, and microposts), you can still use Orbit. When starting Orbit, the `-c`
flag allows you to you can specify the folder within `content` the post will be
saved in.

Example: The following will save posts sent to port 4041 in the `link` folder.

```
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -c link -p 4041
```

## Update Command

If you don't want to have `hugo server` constantly running to watch for changes
(for example if you're running Orbit on your server), you can regenerate your
site with a command passed to the `-u` flag.

Example:

```
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -u "cd /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH && hugo"
```

## Authentication

If you want to expose Orbit on your server (which is how I use Orbit), you'll
want to take advantage of the built-in token verification. When starting Orbit,
pass some secret token to the `-t` flag and update the `API Endpoint URL` in
MarsEdit with a `token` parameter.

Example:

```
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -t MYSECRETTOKEN
```

Then in MarsEdit, if your endpoint was, for example,
`https://hugo.elliotekj.com/xmlrpc` you'd update it to
`https://hugo.elliotekj.com/xmlrpc?token=MYSECRETTOKEN`.

## Draft Posts

Draft posts aren't a MetaWeblog standard. Orbit works around this by adding
a `[Orbit - Draft]` category to the category list. If you use that category
then when saving your post, `draft` will be set to true in the post's
frontmatter.

## All Options

- `-s PATH` `--src-path PATH`: Path to your Hugo site (required)
- `-c FOLDER_NAME` `--content-folder FOLDER_NAME`: Name of the folder in `/content` you want Orbit to serve (default: 'post')
- `-p PORT` `--port PORT`: Port to run Orbit on (default: 4040)
- `-t TOKEN` `--token TOKEN`: Token used for authenticating yourself (optional)
- `-u COMMAND` `--update-command COMMAND`: Command run when your site is updated (optional)

## License

Orbit is released under the MIT [`LICENSE`](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/blob/master/LICENSE).

## About

This crate was written by [Elliot Jackson](https://elliotekj.com).

- Blog: [https://elliotekj.com](https://elliotekj.com)
- Email: elliot@elliotekj.com

Commit message:

Add tip for Micro.Blog users
— Elliot Jackson <elliot@elliotekj.com>

README.md, after:

# Orbit - A MetaWeblog API Server for Hugo

Orbit is a MetaWeblog API server for blogs powered by
[Hugo](https://gohugo.io). It was written so that I could write and publish to
my [blog](https://elliotekj.com) from
[MarsEdit](https://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/). It supports draft posts (not
a MetaWeblog standard) and MarsEdit's drag & drop image insertion. It also has
built-in token verification so you can safely expose it on your server.

**Jump to:** [Basic Usage](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#basic-usage) | [Post Types](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#post-types) | [Update Command](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#update-command) | [Authentication](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#authentication) | [Draft Posts](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#draft-posts)| [All Options](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit#all-options)

## Basic Usage

1. [Download Orbit](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/archive/master.zip)

2. `cd` into the folder and run:

```sh
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH
```

3. Configure MarsEdit:

![MarsEdit configuration](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/blob/master/.README/marsedit.png)


## Post Types

If your blog, like mine, has multiple post types (e.g. link posts, regular
posts, and microposts), you can still use Orbit. When starting Orbit, the `-c`
flag allows you to you can specify the folder within `content` the post will be
saved in.

Example: The following will save posts sent to port 4041 in the `link` folder.

```sh
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -c link -p 4041
```

## Update Command

If you don't want to have `hugo server` constantly running to watch for changes
(for example if you're running Orbit on your server), you can regenerate your
site with a command passed to the `-u` flag.

Example:

```sh
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -u "cd /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH && hugo"
```

Tip for [Micro.Blog](https://micro.blog) users: You can use the `-u` flag to ping Micro.Blog whenever you publish a new micropost

```sh
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -u "curl -d 'url=https://YOURSITE.com/microposts.json' -X POST http://micro.blog/ping"
```

## Authentication

If you want to expose Orbit on your server (which is how I use Orbit), you'll
want to take advantage of the built-in token verification. When starting Orbit,
pass some secret token to the `-t` flag and update the `API Endpoint URL` in
MarsEdit with a `token` parameter.

Example:

```sh
$ ruby app/orbit.rb -s /YOUR/HUGO/SITE/PATH -t MYSECRETTOKEN
```

Then in MarsEdit, if your endpoint was, for example,
`https://hugo.elliotekj.com/xmlrpc` you'd update it to
`https://hugo.elliotekj.com/xmlrpc?token=MYSECRETTOKEN`.

## Draft Posts

Draft posts aren't a MetaWeblog standard. Orbit works around this by adding
a `[Orbit - Draft]` category to the category list. If you use that category
then when saving your post, `draft` will be set to true in the post's
frontmatter.

## All Options

- `-s PATH` `--src-path PATH`: Path to your Hugo site (required)
- `-c FOLDER_NAME` `--content-folder FOLDER_NAME`: Name of the folder in `/content` you want Orbit to serve (default: 'post')
- `-p PORT` `--port PORT`: Port to run Orbit on (default: 4040)
- `-t TOKEN` `--token TOKEN`: Token used for authenticating yourself (optional)
- `-u COMMAND` `--update-command COMMAND`: Command run when your site is updated (optional)

## License

Orbit is released under the MIT [`LICENSE`](https://github.com/elliotekj/orbit/blob/master/LICENSE).

## About

This crate was written by [Elliot Jackson](https://elliotekj.com).

- Blog: [https://elliotekj.com](https://elliotekj.com)
- Email: elliot@elliotekj.com
